✅JavaScript Notes *
1_dot ( . ) operater in javascriptis are executed from left to right when there are multiple dot operater present in one line of code.

2_whenever we take data input from user in javascriptit it is always a sring wheather we take a number as input or srting or any other data type
  so we have to convert it according to our use/need.

3_in javascript Refactering means Restructuring the code.

4-Function expression without name is called Anonymuous function in javascript.

5_we should not use 'var' as a varaible in our program and we should also not use any variable or function before its decleration in javascript.

6_window is the Global object in javascript in browser.

7_we should not use arrow function as method in an object literal and also do not use this keyword inside the arrow function.

8_we should always use a regular function or function decleration as a method in an object literal.

9_an object is not a block scope but it creats its own object literal scope.

10_the value of this keyword in a regular function call is always undefined.

11_the arrow function can use the property of an object through this keyword if it is defined inside a regular function which is a property of the object.

12_the arguments keyword is only available in function decleration and function expression but not in arrow function.

13_the varaible decleared with const are unmutable (not chagable or can not be modified further) for primitive data but for object ( refrence value )
    we can mutate the property value of the object but we can not assign a whole object completly to a new object if decleared with const however it is possible with let.

14_if we have two object like 'objoriginal=objcopy' and if we change any property value in 'objcopy' then it will also change the property value for 'objoriginal' this
   is because they both point to the same memory address in the call stack memory but the value of property changes take place in heap memory. 

15_if we have to make a shalow (duplicate) copy of an object then we can use 'object.assign' function so that we can change the property value of 'objcopy' without 
    affecting the property value of 'objoriginal' however it will not allow a deep copy of the property that means if we have an object (like array or any other object)
    inside an object then if we change the value of the array for 'objcopy' then it will also change the value of 'objoriginal'.




✅✅Data Structure-Modern Operators And Strings **
💡💡Lecture 13 💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
Array and Object Destructuring, 
Spread Operator, Rest pattern and Rest parameter, 
Short circuiting (&& and ||), 
The Nullish Coalescing Operator ( ?? ), 
Logical Assignment Operators )

✅spread operator * (need modification)
✍️ remember that we use spread operater to built new arrays or to pass multiple values into a function, So these are the two use cases of spread operater,
   and in both cases we use the spread operater to expand an array into individual elements.

✍️ when there is a square bracket [] on left side of the assignment operater(=) also called as destructuring assignment in case of destructuring,
   javascript understnad that it should do Destructuring. here the assignment operater (=) does not work as normal assignment operater.

✍️ if we want to skip any array value while destructuring an array we can skip by seperating , eg. const[a, ,b]=[10,20,30];   OUTPUT would be: 10 and 30.

✍️ we can skip any value in object destructuring without any comma( , ) seperation what we do in array destructuring.

✍️ Destructuring is a JavaScript expression that allows us to extract data from
   arrays, objects, and maps and set them into new, distinct ( different ) variables.
   Destructuring allows us to extract multiple properties, or items, from an array​ at a time.
   
✍️ we use curley braces {} for destructuring object instead of square bracket which we use while destructuring array.

✍️ the variable name while destructuring object should exactly be same as the property name that we want to retrive frome the object,  however you can rename it.

✍️ in real world application since the data is not hard coded or precoded but the data comes from the outside through API and we don't know
    how exactly the data looks like then it becomes important to set the default value while destructuring data.

✍️ while mutating an object during destructuring object we can't write only curley braces
   on left side of the assignment(=) since we get an uncaught syntax error,  hence we write 
   the whole expression the left and right side of the assignment(=) inside the parentheses to avoid the error.

✍️ The spread operator is commonly used to make deep copies of JS objects. When we have nested arrays or nested data in an object, 
   the spread operator makes a deep copy of top-level data and a shallow copy of the nested data. Using this operator makes the code concise 
   and enhances its readability.

✍️ the spread operater is used to expand the value of an iterable like String, Sets, Maps or Object spacially an Array.

✍️ when there is a situation like we have to write multiple values seperated by comma( , ) then we can use spread operater(...x) to
   avoid wrting the value multiple times. 

✍️ spread operater is actually a bit similar to destructuring because it also helps us get elements out of arrays, the big diffence is that
   the spread operater takes all the elements from the array and it also does not creats a new varaibles, and as a consequence 
   we can only use it in places where we would otherwise write values seperated by comma's( , ).

✍️ in javascript iterables are arrays, maps, sets etc.  ( but Not object )
 
✍️ multiple values seperated by comma( , ) in spread operater are usually
   only expected when we pass arguments into a function or when we built a new array.

✍️ the spread operater actually also works on objects, even though objects are not iterables.

✍️ since we were able to do shallow coppies of arrays using the spread operater we
   can do the same with objects, so instead of using object.assign function as we
   did in the previous lecture. and we can also change the property value of the 
   cppied object and it will not affect the original object property value. 


✅Rest pattern and Rest parameter *
✍️ The rest operator in javaScript allows a function to take an indefinite number of arguments and bundle them in an array,
   thus allowing us to write functions that can accept a infinite number of arguments, irrespective of the number of parameters defined. 
   These types of functions in JavaScript are called variadic functions (i.e functions of indefinite arity). 
   The rest operator in javaScript was introduced in ES6 (or ES2015) to handle function parameters efficiently and easily.

   The rest parameters hold all those leftover arguments that are not given a separate parameter name (i.e formally defined in function expression),
   By using the rest operator user can call a function with any number of arguments, no matter how it was defined.

  The rest parameter always returns an array so we can use any array methods that the javascript provides us on it.

✍️ remember that we used spread operater to built new arrays or to pass multiple values into a function, So those are the two used cases of spread operater,
   and in both cases we used the spread operater to expand an array into individual elements. Now the rest pattern uses the exact same syntax however to
   collect multiple elements and condensed them into an array, so that's realy the opposite of spread, the spread operater is to unpack an array while
   rest is to pack elements into one array.

✍️ the one big diffence between Spread and Rest operater is that the spread operater
   is used on right side of the assignment operater ( = ) while Rest operater is 
   used on left side of the assignment operater ( = ).

✍️ the rest pattern or operater must be in last in the destructuring assignment
   because it does not include any skipped elements, because otherwise how 
   javaScript will know untill when it should collect the rest of the arry.
   Eg. const [a, , b, ...others] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]  OUTPUT: 1 3 [4,5].
   NOTE: WE CAN'T DO THIS: 
   const [a, , b, ...others, c] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]  OUTPUT: syntax error.
   and also for the same reason therefore there can only ever be one rest operater
   in destructuring assignment.

✍️ like spread operater rest operater also works for objects.

✍️ when function uses the rest operater in its parameter then its called rest parameter.
   Eg: function(...number){
   Note: here the number is a not a normal parameter its a rest parameter
         and can recieve any arbitrary (based on random choice ) arguments at the same time.
  }

✍️ so the spread and rest syntax both look exactly the same, but they work in
  opposite ways depending on where they are used, so the spread operater is used where
  we would otherwise write values seperated by a comma ( , ). on the otherhand
  the rest pettern is basically used where we would otherwise write variable names
  seperated by comma's ( , ).
  So again the rest pattern can be used where we would write variable names seperated
  by comma's ( , ) and not values seperated by comma's ( , ). so its a subtle ( precise )
  distinction but this is how you know when and where to use spread and rest operater.


✅Short circuiting ( && and || ) *
✍️ the logical operator (&& and || ) can use ANY data type, and can return ANY data type and also the do short circuiting.
   in the case of ( || ) operator short circuiting means that if the first value is a truthy value it will immediately return that first value.
   if the first operand is truthy in ( || ) operater then the other operand will not even be evaluated, that's what short circuiting mean.

✍️ the result of the ( || ) operator doesn't have to be a boolean, it will simply return the truthy value.

✍️ when it comes to short-circuit evaluation the ( && ) operater works in the exact 
   opposite way of  the ( || ) operater. 


✅Nullish Coalescing Operator ( ?? ) *
✍️ in nullish Coalescing operator ( ?? ) only ( null and undefined )are consider
   as nullish or false value but not ( 0 and '' (empty string) ), 0 and ''(empty string) are consider as non-nullish or true value.
 

✅Logical Assignment Operators ( || and nullish assignment operater ??) *
✍️ the logical ( || ) assignment operator will assign a value to a varaible if 
    that exact variable is falsy right now.

✍️ the logical nullish assignment operater ( ?? ) will assign a value to a variable
   if that exact value is currently nullish ( 0 or '' ).

✍️ the logical ( && ) assignment operator will assign a value to a varaible if 
  that exact variable is currently truthy.



💡💡Lecture 14 💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
for of loop, 
Enhanced Object Literal, Optional chaining, 
Looping Objects, Sets, Maps )

✅for of loop *
for(const item of menu)
✍️ the 'for-of loop' is called 'for-of' because it is 'for' and then 'item' of the 'menu', so this loop will automatically loop over the entire
   array and in each iteration it will give us access to the current array element which we can specify in 'item' variable but ofcourse
   we could call it any thing that we want. And so if we simply log the current item then to the console then simply each element will be logged
   one by one, and that's because again the item variable is always the current element of the array in each iteration. 
   And also just like in the if else statement we don't need to create a code block { } when we only have one statement here to execute. 

✍️ in 'for-of loop' the item variable is always the current element in each iteration and also just like in the if else statement 
   we don't need to create a code block { } when we only have one statement here to execute.

✍️ 'for-of loop' is very nice level of abstraction over the raguler 'for loop', so we can do the same thing with 'for of loop' but without having to
   worry about all the underlying details such as counters and conditions, what's also great about 'for-of loop' is that we can still use the
   continue and break keywords, and this is important because in the next section we will learn other ways of looping arrays and in thoseone
   we will not be able to continue or to break

✍️ in for-of loop when we need the 'Index Number' and the Value of an array at the same time we use arrayName.enteries() function,  like  menu.enteries()

✍️ we don't need to pass any function in .enteries() function in case of array, just keep it empty.


✅Enhanced object literal *
( ES6 introduced 3 ways which make it easier to write object literals. )
✍️ in ES6 if we want to add an object inside another object we simply needs to write the name of that object which we want to add
   followed a by comma ( , )  Eg. openingHours,        earlier we used to write like this openingHours:openingHours,

✍️ in ES6 we no longer have to create a property and then set it to a function expression
   like we have always been doing, essentially we create a property just like to other 
   property and then we set that to a function expression, but again now we no longer 
   need to do that, we no need to write function keyword and colon ( : ) in function expression.

// OLDER VERSION
Eg. order:function(starterIndex,mainIndex){                                                        
                                                                                                            
return [this.starterMenu[starterIndex], this.mainMenu[mainIndex]];                                             
      
( older version )
}


// ES6 VERSION
order(starterIndex,mainIndex){
return [this.starterMenu[starterIndex], this.mainMenu[mainIndex]];

( ES5 Version)    

}

✍️ in ES6 now we can also compute ( change ) the property name as well,  earlier we were only able TO compute the property value but not the property name.
   

✅Optional chaining *
✍️ in ES6 optional chaining is used to check weather a certain property or
   methods of an object exist or not and based on that we take certain
   decision

✍️ the optional chaining works same as nullish Coalescing operater
   if the value is null or undefined then only it will be false
   but if it is ( 0 or '' ) then it is true.

✍️ we almost alwys use optional chaining and nullish Coalescing operator togather
   so that we can actually we do something in case we don't get a result from
   the object or from the array that are on left side of the nullish Coalescing
   operator.



✅Looping Objects : Object Keys ( Object property Name ), Values ( Object property Value ), And Enteries ( Entire Object) *
✍️ we learnt about the for-of loop to loop over arrays which remember is an iterable,
   but can also loop over objects which are not iterable but in an indirect way.

✍️ when we have to loop an object's 'Property NAME' we use Object.keys(openingHours)
   function and pass the object name in the function whoose 'Property NAME' is required.

✍️ when we have to loop an object's 'Property VALUES' we use Object.values(openingHours)
   function and pass the object name in the function whoose 'property VALUES' is required.

✍️ for looping over the entire object, means the 'Property NAME' and the 'property VALUES' at the same time 
   we use Object.enteries(openingHours) function and pass the object name in the function that we want to loop. 

✍️ when we use Object.enteries() function while looping an object then we have to pass the objectNmae that
   we want to loop as an argument in the .enteries() function but in case of loopin an array we don't have to
   pass any function.



✅Sets *
✍️ a set is basically just a collection of unique values, so that means that 
   a set can never have any duplicates and that property makes them useful in certain
   situation.

✍️ a 'Sets' kind of looks similar to an 'Array' and just like an 'Array; 'Sets' are also
   iterables, now ofcourse a 'Set' is still very different from an 'Array',
   first because its elements are unique and second because the order of the elements
   in the 'Set' is irrelevant.

✍️ keep in mind that strings are also iterables.

✍️ sets can also be empty, just like this,  Eg. consol.log(new Set());

✍️ the 'size' property of a 'Set' is similar to 'length' property of an 'Array'
   but both are different please don't get confuse.

✍️ the 'has()' method in a 'Set' is similar to 'include()' method in an 'Array'
   which is used to check if certain element is present or not.

✍️ in Sets there are no Indexes like in an Array and infact there is no way of
   getting values out of a 'Set' and if we think about this then it make sense,
   so there is realy no need for getting data out of a set that's because if all values
   are unique and if there order does not matter then there is no point of retrieving
   values out of a 'Set', all we need to know is weather a certain value is in the 'Set' 
   or not and that's why we have the has() method.

✍️ if your goal is to actually store values in order and then retrieve it then the best
   usecase is to just use an 'Array' you would not use a 'Set' for that. And so again
   there is no need for getting values out of a 'Set', because if you need it then
   you would just use an 'Array'.

✍️ since 'Sets' are also iterable and therefore we can loop over them using for-loop,
   like we loop over an 'Array'or any other iterable.

✍️ in a normal codebase the main usecase of 'Sets' is actually to remove duplicate
   values of 'Arrays'.

✍️ 'Sets' are not intended to replace 'Arrays' at all, so whenever you need to store
    values in order and that might conatin duplicates always just use Arrays,
    that's also true when you need to realy manipulate data, because 'Arrays' have
    access to a lot of great 'Array' methods.
✍️ 'Sets' have this very useful property of being unique, and its also very easy
    to intract with Sets by using all of there straightforward methods.

✍️ however 'Sets' are not nearly as important as 'Arrays'.



✅Maps *
✍️ 'Maps' are a lot more useful than 'Sets'.

✍️ A Map is a data structure that we can use to map values to keys,
   so just like an 'Objects' data is stored in 'key value pairs' in 'Maps'.
   Now the big diffence between Objects and 'Maps' is that in 'Maps' the keys
   can have any type and this can be huge, so in 'Objects' the keys are basically
   always a string but in 'Map' we can have any type of key, it could even be an 
  'Object' or 'Arrays' or other 'Maps'.

✍️ the .set() method in 'Maps' is very similar to the .add() method in 'Sets',
   so both allows to add a new element to the data structure.

✍️ in order to read data from a 'Map' we use the .get() method.

✍️ there are two methods to poppulate a new Map or set values to a new Maps,
   (i) By creating an empty 'Map' and then insert the values by using .set() method,
      the .set() method is a bit cumbersome ( difficult ) when there are lot of 
      values to set.

   (ii) the second method is by creating an 'Array' inside the Map() function and
        then creat multiple 'Arrays' inside the first 'Array', and in the multiple
        'Arrays' create a 'key value pairs' as we did by .set() method.
        so when creating a new 'Map' from scratch directly in the code the second
        method is preferd.
        But when we keep adding new elements programmatically using code then
        ofcourse the .set() method is still way to go.

✍️ we can convert an 'object' to a 'Map' by pssing the Object.enteries(ObjectName) in
   the Map() function.    Eg: const hoursMap = new Map(Object.entries(openingHours));

✍️ since 'Maps' are also iterable and so the for-of loop is also available for them.

✍️ the for-of loop for the 'Maps' works exact the same as 'Object' the only diffence is
   that we have to pass Object.enteries(ObjectName) after the 'of' in the for-of loop,
   and that's just because the 'Object' is not an iterable but then we converted it
   to an iterable using object.enteries().

✍️ sometimes we also need to convert a 'Map' back to an 'Array',
   then we can do like this: console.log([...mapName]);  Eg. console.log([...question]);
  



💡💡Lecture 15💡💡
✅✅ Working With Srtings **
✅✅Topics:(
SUMMARY: Which Data Structure To Use,
Coding Challenge #3
Working With Srtings-Part 1,
Working With Srtings-Part 2,
what is regular expression,
Working With Srtings-Part 3,
Coding Challenge #4,
String Methods Practice )

✅Summery: Which Data Structure To Use *

✅Coding Challenge #3 *

✅Working With Srtings-Part 1 *
✍️ the 'String' Indexes start from zero same as 'Array'

✍️ the Strings are case sensitive like 'P' and 'p' both are different things.

✍️ the slice() method in string is used to extract or cut a part of 'String', the String
   obtained after slicing is called 'Sub String', its a part of the original String,
   this does not change the underlying Strings, thats because its actually impossible
   to mutate Strings they are primitive.

✍️ all the methods of a Strings returns a new string so we can store it in a varaible.

✍️ the length of the extracted String is always going to be ( endIndex-beginingIndex ).

✍️ we know that 'Strings' are just primitives, so why do thay have methods,
   souldn't methods only be available on objects such as Arrays, well that is actually
   true, however javaScript is realy smart and so here is how this works,
   whenever we call a method on a 'String' javaScript will automatically behind the
   scenes convert that 'String primitive' to a 'String Object' with the same content
   and then its on that object where the methods are called, And this process is 
   called 'Boxing' because it basically takes our String and puts it into a 'Box' 
   which is the object.
   So basically what happens is this;
   console.log(new String('Jonas'));
   OUTPUT:
   String {'Jonas'}
       0: "J"
       1: "o"
       2: "n"
       3: "a"
       4: "s"
       length: 5

✍️ when the operation is done by the string methods() the object is converted back to
  a regular string primitive.

✍️ all strings methods() returns primitives even if called on a string object.
   Eg: console.log(typeof new String('jonas'));  // OOTPUT: object
       console.log(typeof new String('jonas').slice(1));  // OOTPUT: String


✅Working With Srtings-Part 2 *
✍️ in string replace() method is case sensitive, so just like all of the other string methods are.

✍️ before comparing a string to any conditions first convert it into lowercase by using tolowercase() method.

  
✅Working With Srtings-Part 3 *
✍️ in strings the split() method devides a string in multiple parts and returns the
   result in form of an array.

✍️ in strings the join() method is exactly the opposite of the split() method 
   and joins the multiple strings and also takes out the strings from an array 
   which was created during split() method.

✍️ if one of the operand of ( + ) sign is a string it will convert all the operands
   to a string 



💡💡Lecture 16💡💡
✅✅A Closer Look at Function **
✅✅Topics:(
Default Parameters,
How Passing Aurguments Works Values VS Refrence,
First-Class And Higher-Order Functions,
Functions Accepting Callback Functions,
Function Returning Functions,
The Call And Apply Methods,
The Bind Method,
when to use call method and when to use bind method )

✅Default Parameters *
✍️ the default parameters can contain any expression.

✍️ in default parameters we can use the values of the other parameters that were set
   before it.

✍️ the function parameters are always executed in same the order as they are defined,
   so the pass the arguments in the sequence and we can not skip a parameter.

✍️ if we want to skip a parameter we can use this trick of using undefined 
   on that place, and it works because the value of a default parameter is always
   undefined untill we don't set it.
   Eg: createBooking('LH123', undefined, 5);


✅How Passing Aurguments Works Values VS Refrence *
✍️ when we try to copy an object like this( const passenger = jonas; ) we are 
   realy only copying the refrence to that object in the memory heap, but they
   both point to the same object in memory.

✍️ passing a primitive type to a function is really just the same as creating a copy
   like this( const flightNum = flight; ) out side of the function, so the value is 
   simply copied.
   on the otherhand when we pass an object to a function it is really just like 
   copying an object like this( const passenger = jonas; ), so whatever we change
   in a copy will also happen in the original.

👉 IMPORTANT NOTE: ofcourse we need to be carefull with this behaviour and always keep it in 
        mind, that's because the fact that objects behave this way when passed to
        functions can have unforeseeable ( not able to  anticipated or predicted. )
        consequences in large codebases.

✍️ javaScript does not have passing by refrence, only passing by value, even though it
   looks like its passing by refrence, so there are languages like C and C++ where
   you can pass a refrence to any value instead of the value it self this works
   even with primitives, so you could pass refrence to the value 5 and then the
   original value outside of the function would be changed and this is called 
   pass by refrence, but once again javaScript does not have pass by refrence.

👉 IMPORTANT Note: its confusing because As we just learnt for object we do infact pass in
        a refrence, so the memory address of the object, however that refrence
        itself is still a value, its simply a value that contains a memory address,
        so basically we pass a refrence to the function but we do not pass by refrence
        and this is an important distinction.


✅First-Class And Higher-Order Functions *
✍️ functions are really just another type of objects in javaScript, and since 
   objects are values functions are values too, and since functions are values
   there is a bunch of intresting things that we can do with them, like storing
   them in 'variables' or' object properties'.

✍️ we can also pass functions as an arguments to other functions.

✍️ we can also return a function from another function like we return any value from
   a function, but its also more advanced and harder to understnad.

✍️ remember that functions are objects and many types of objects in javaScript have
   methods like 'Array methods' for example, and actually there are also function 
   methods, so methods that we can call on functions.

✍️ besides methods functions can even have properties and one of them is 'name'.

✍️ a function which is passed in, in another function is known as 'Callback function'
   and the caller function is known as 'Higher Order Function', thats because
   the Callback function will be called later by the Higher Order Function.
   its like the Callback Function saying to the Higher Order Function hey dear
   don't Call me yet but Call me back once you are ready.

👉 IMPORTANT NOTE: There seems to be some confusion between 'First-Class Functions' 
    and 'Higher-Order Functions', some people think that they are the same thing
      but actually they mean different things, so 'First-Class Functions'
      is just a feature that a programming language either has or does not have
      all it means is that all functions are values that's it, there are no 
      'First-Class Functions' in practice its just a concept, there are however
      'Higher-Order Functions' in practice which are possible because the language
      supports 'First-Class Functions', its a subtle ( precise ) diffence,
      but still worth noting if you want to be able to talk like a true javaScript
      master.


✅Functions Accepting Callback Functions *
✍️ in DOM the Callback function is know as EventListener or EventHandler

✍️ the concept of Callback functions is used all the time in built-in javaScript 
   functions.

                
👉 IMPORTANT NOTE: Why are Callback functions so much used in javaScript and why are 
    they so helpful.
   (i) The first big advantage of this is that it makes it easy to split up our code
   into more reusable and interconnected parts.
   (ii) The Callback functions allow us to creat abstraction and abstraction is 
   something really important in programming, so basically what abstraction means is
   that we hide the details of some code implementation because we don't really care
   about all that detail and this allows us to think about problems at a higher more
   abstract level so that's why its called an abstraction.

✍️ the Higher Order Function is called higher order function because this function
   operates at a higher level of abstraction leaving the low level details for the
   low level functions, thay are not really called low order or low level functions.

   For Example: the 'addevenListener' function own its own would have no idea of what to
               do whenever the 'click' or any other events happens and so that's why
               we pass in Callback functions to tell the 'addevenListener' Functions
               exactly waht to do, and here the 'addevenListener' is a 'Higher Order
               Function' with the high level of abstraction and and the Callback
               function is a lower order function with more lower level of abstractions.           




✅Function Returning Functions *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase



✅The Call And Apply Methods *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅The Bind Method *
✍️ just like the 'call method' bind method also allows us to manually set the 
   'this keyword' for any function call, now the diffence is that bind method does
   not immediately call the function instead it returns a new function where the
   'this keyword' is bound, so its set to whatever value we pass into 'bind method'
   as first argument. 

✍️ the this keyword is set dynamically.



💡💡Lecture 17💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
Coding Challenge #1,
how this keyword works in an event handler function,
Immediately Invoked Function Express (IIFE),
Clousers,
More Closure Examples,
Coding Challenge #2  )

✍️ in an event handler function the 'this keyword' will always point to the element to
   which it is attached, so we use bind() method to bind it.

✅Immediately Invoked Function Express (IIFE) *

✍️ keep in mind that its important to hide variables and that scopes are a good tool
   for doing this and this is also the reason why the immediately Invoked function
   expression were invented.


✍️ so basically Immediately Invoked Function Expression (IIFE) is not a feature of the 
   javaScript language, its more of a pattern that some developer came up with and 
   that then started to being used by many other developers.

✅Clousers *
✍️ there is an almost mystical fearure of javaScript functions that many developers
   fail to fully understand and what i am talking about is something called closures.
   it is considerd as one of the hardest concept to understand among the javaScript 
   lerners, however with the right explaination its actually not that hard specially
   when you already understood the topics like 'Execution Contexts' , 'The Call Stack'
   and the 'Scpoe Chain'. Because closures kind of bring all of these concepts togather
   in a beutifull almost magical way.

✍️ a 'Closure' is not a fearure that we explicitly use. so we don't creat 'Closures'
   manually like we create a 'New Array' or a 'New Function', so a Closure simply
   happens automatically in certain situations we just need to recognize those 
   situations.


💡💡Lecture 18💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
Simple Array Methods,
The New At Method,
Looping Arrays: Foreach Method,
ForEach With Maps And Sets,
Project: Bankist App,
Create DOM Elements,
Coding Challenge #1,
Data Transformation: Map, Filter, Reduce Methods
)

✅Simple Array Methods *
✍️ why arrays do actually have methods? well remember that methods are simply Functions
   that we can call on objects so basically they are functions attached to objects,
   so if we have array methods that means that arrays themselves are also objects and
   so these array methods are simply functions that are attached to all arrays that we
   create in javaScript, now we will learn why all arrays have access to these methods
   in later section when we talk about prototypal inheritance but for now i just want
   you to understnad that arrays are objects and that they get access to special
   built-in methods that we can essentially see as tools for arrays.

✍️ the splice method works in alsmost the same way as slice method but the
   Fundamental difference is that splice method does actually change the original
   array, so it mutates that array.

✍️ need to review the push , pop , shift , unshift , indexof and includes array methods

✍️ no developers in the world knows all the methods of an array by heart we can go on
   mdn.com to review any array method if forget in future.


✅The New At Method *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅Looping Arrays: Foreach Method *
✍️ when should you use the for-of loop and when should you use forEach method, well 
   one Fundamental difference between the two of them is that you can not break
   out of forEach loop, so the Continue and Break statements do not work any
   forEach loop at all, so instead forEach will always loop over the entire array
   and there is nothing that you can do about it.
   So if you really need to break out of a loop then you have to keep using the for-of 
   loop but other than that it really comes down to your personal preference just
   like so many other things in javaScript.
   Every programming language always has many different ways or different tools to
   achieve the same thing and especially as more things keep getting added  to
   the language there will always be more options to achieve the same result.



✅ForEach With Maps And Sets *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅Project: Bankist App *
👉No Notes In This Section


✅Create DOM Elements *
✍️ The DOM insertAdjacentHTML() method is used to insert a text as HTML file 
   to a specified position. This method is used to change or add text as HTML. 
  
Eg: node.insertAdjacentHTML(specify-position, text-to-enter) 
👉we can also use any function after 'specify-position' or in place of 'text-to-enter'

Return Value : This will return the page with the specified change. 
There are four legal position values that can be used.

afterbegin
afterend
beforebegin
beforeend

✅Coding Challenge #1 *
👉No Notes In This Section



✅✅Data Transformation: Map, Filter, Reduce Methods **

✅The Map Method *
✍️ in javaScript there are three big and important array methods that we use all the 
   time to perform data Transformations, so basically these are methods that we use
   to create new arrays based on Transforming data from other arrays and in recent
   years these tools have become reallt popular and for good reasons, and therefore
   you will see them everywhere you look in modern javaScript.
   And the tools i am talking about is Map, Filter and Reduce methods.

✍️ the Map method is yet another method that we can use to loop over arrays, so
   Map method is actually similar to the 'forEach method' that we studied before But
   with the difference that Map method creates a brand new array based on the 
   original array, so essentially the Map method takes an array loops over that array
   and in each iteration it applies a Callback function that we specify in our code
   to the current array element.

✍️ the 'Map method' maps the value of the original array to a new array and thats 
   why this method is called 'Map', and it is extremely useful usually way more useful
   than 'forEach method' because 'forEach method' simply allows us to do some work
   with each array element but 'Map method' on the other hand builds us a brand new
   array containing the results of applying an operation to the original array.
   all right?

   Eg: const arr [3, 1, 4, 3, 2]      Map current*2         will return [6, 2, 4, 6, 4]

✍️ since we know that 'Map method' will return a brand new array and so we can store
   it in a new variable.

✍️ the 'Map method' does not mutate or change the original array at all.

✍️ its a good idea to keep in mind why we actually get access to these two parameters
   here, So one more time all we do here to pass the 'Callback function' into the
  'Map method'. right? but we do not call the 'Callback function' by ourselves it is
   the 'Map method' who will call this function for each of the array elements in the
   movements array. OK? now each time that the 'Map method' calls or Callback it it
   will simply pass in the 'current array element' as well as the 'current index' and 
   the 'whole array' and of three here we are only using the first two, just the 
   'current element' and 'current index'. all right?


                      
✅The Filter Method *
✍️ 'Filter method' is used to filter for elements in the original array which satisfy
    a certain condition.

    Eg: const arr [3, 1, 4, 3, 2]     Filter current > 2      will return [3, 4, 3]

    So in this example we are only looking for elements greater than 2 , so only 
    elements that pass the test that we specified will make it into a new filtered
    array, or in other words elements for which the conditions is true will be 
    included in a new array that the filter method returns all other elements
    will get filtered out so they will not be included in the new array.

✍️ just like other 'Callback function' like in 'Map' and 'forEach'  
   'filter method' also gets access to the 'current array elemen't as well as 
    the 'current index' and the 'entire array'.

✍️ why not just use the for-of loop for everything, now the reason for that is 
   again the push that exists in javaScript for using more functional code like 
   this , there's also a more practical implication here abd that's because we can 
   actually chain all of these methods togather so basically use them all one after 
   another to build a big final result and that is completly impossible with 
   for-of loop.


💡💡Lecture 19💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
Reduce Methods,
Coding Challenge #2,
The Magic Of Chaining Methods,
The Find Method )

✅The Reduce Method *
✍️ 'Reduce method' is used to boil down all the elements of the original array into
    one single value and an example of this can be to add all the elements of an array
    togather but we can also do many other interesting things. 
    
    So for example of adding up all numbers in the array we need to specify an 
    operation like below one, where we have an accumulator variable then as the reduce 
    method loops over the array it keeps adding the current element onto the
    accumulator until at the end of the loop we have the total sum of all the elements.
    So yo can imagine this as a snowball that keeps getting bigger and bigger as 
    it rolls down a hill and this is known as 'The Snowball Effect' and reduce is 
    very similar to taht.
    Now we also say that this whole process has now reduced the original array to 
    one single value which in this case is the sum of all the elements but it can
    ofcourse be many other operations, Now its this value that then actually gets
    returned from the 'Reduce method' in the end , So there is no new array in this
    case but only the reduce value 

    Eg: const arr [3, 1, 4, 3, 2]     Reduce acc + current       will return 13


✅The Magic Of Chaining Methods *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅The Find Method *
✍️ So as the name says we can use the 'Find method' to retrieve one element of an 
   array based on a condition.


💡💡Lecture 20💡💡
✅✅Topics:(
The Findindex Method,
Some And Every Methods,
Flat And FlatMap Method,
Sorting Arrays
More Ways Of Creating And Filling  Arrays )

✅The Findindex Method *
✍️ the 'findindex method' works almost the same way as the 'find method' but 
   as the name says 'findindex' Returns the 'index' of the 'found element' and not
   the element itself


✅Some And Every Method *
✍️ we can use 'includes() methode' if an array includes a certain value, 
   now however we can only really test for equality, so basically 'includes()' 
   here returns true if any value in the array is exactly equal to minus ( -130 )
   and so again this is essentially testing for equality but what if we wanted to
   test for a 'condition' instead and that's where the sum method comes into play. 


✅Flat And FlatMap Method *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅Sorting Arrays *
👉The note of this section is in the actual codebase


✅More Ways Of Creating And Filling  Arrays *
✍️ the last think that we are going to learn in this section is how to 
   'programmatically create and fill Arrays', so far we have always simply created
   arrays like this: const x = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]  Right?
   so basically writing them out by hand literally, so just like above or maybe
   we might have done it also like: const x = new Array[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] so using
   a 'new' and then the Array a Constructor and then passing in all the numbers here
   as arguments and then that's also creates this array. Right?

   in these cases we basically already have our data, however we can actually also 
   generate arrays programmatically so without having to define all the items 
   manually and there are many situations in which this is necessary and there are 
   also multiple ways of doing it and the easiest one is to again use the array 
   constructor function, so let create a new array here;
   like this: const x = new Array[7] and then i will pass only one argument i.e 7
   console.log(x);    so what do you think is going to happen , well we might think
   that this is going to create an array with only one element, number 7

   OUTPUT: [empty × 7]  but actually it doesn't, instead it creates a new array with
   seven empty elements in there and it simply contains nothing, so this output
   is very weird indeed, and the reason for that is this weird behavior of 
   this: 'new Array()' array function which does it so that whenever we only
   pass-in one argument then it creates a new empty argument with that length,
   So if we dont't know about this special particularity of the 'Array constructor
   Function' then this can lead to weird errors, OK?
   Now also we can not really use this 'x' array for anything;
   for example we can not call the 'map() method' on it to now fill it up.

   for example we might want to do this: console.log(x.map(() => 5 )) 
   OUTPUT: [empty × 7]  but you will see that nothing happened here, so this is 
   not really useful except for one thing because there is one method that we can 
   call on this 'empty array' and that is the 'fill() method' so that's a new 
   method that we haven't studied yet but its very straightforward, so let me show 
   it to you so that's: x.fill(1) and then all we need to do is to pass-in a value 
   and it will then fill the entire array with that specific value, OK?

   and this does actually mutate the underlying / original array so we can just 
   change it there and then simply log the entire thing to the console here: 
   x.fill(1)
   console.log(x);
   OUTPUT: [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1] and now we get this array full of 1 (ones).

   this method is actually a little bit similar to the 'slice() method',
   so besides the value that we want to fill the array with we can also specify
   where we want it to start to fill, so lets say only at 'index 3'
   x = [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
   x.fill(1, 3)  and so we also can specify a begin parameter and then it only
   starts at 'index 3' , so it will then fill it up until the end unless we 
   specify an end parameter just like in 'slice() method' so lets say 5
   x.fill(1, 3, 5) and also just like in a slice() the final index here is not
   going to be included in the array.
   console.log(x);
   OUTPUT: [empty × 3, 1, 1, empty × 2] so just two are filled up here.
 
  
✍️ And ofcourse we can also use the 'fill() method' on other arrays so it doesn't
   have to be an empty array lets say;
   const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7] 
   arr.fill(23, 4, 6)
   lets fill it with 23 at position 4 to 6 and again it will mutate the original
   array.

   arr.fill(23, 4, 6)
   console.log(arr);
   OUTPUT: [1, 2, 3, 4, 23, 23, 7]  and so you see that we put 23 at postion 
   4 to 6 ( which means at index 4 and 5 )

✍️ And indeed the 'fill() method' can be very useful sometimes.

✍️ however what if we actually wanted to recreate the array programmatically
   from our first example i.e : const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7] , well
   for that we could use the 'Array.from() function'.
   so lets say;
   const y = Array.from({length: 7}, () => 1);
   so here we are not using the 'from()' as a method on an 'array' Okay?
   instead we are using it on the 'Array Constructor' so that's why it is
   Array.from() ( 'Array' here is a function and then on this function object we 
   call the 'from() method')
   so that's sound confusing but we will make more sense of it in the 
   'object oriented programming section'.
   
   but anyway into this function;
   const y = Array.from({length: 7}, () => 1); ( here in this case we don't even 
   need any arguments but we still have to write the function, so lets write an 
   Arraow function here which will simply return 1 in each iteration, 
   so no arguments no current element no current index and nothing, so all
   we want to return is a 1 and that will then put a 1 in each of the array 
   position )

   here we can first pass-in an object with the 'length property' let's set it 
   to 7 and then the second argument is a 'mapping function' so it is exactly
   like a 'Callback function' that we pass into the 'map() method' ,
   so to start let's also programmatically recreate the array of 'seven 1'

   console.log(y);
   OUTPUT: [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]  in my opinion this is way more cleaner and
   nicer than the 'fill() method' that we used above.

✍️ let's now take it one step further and actually creat
   this initial array from 1 to 7:  const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7] 

   const z = Array.from({length:7}, (_, index) => index + 1);

   as always we get access to the 'current element' and 'current index' and 
   index will vary between 0 to 6 and all we have to return from the Callback
   function is 'index + 1' 
   so again the Callback function here is exactly like the one in a 'map() method'
   so you can simply imagine that you are using this as a Callback function in 
   calling the 'map() method' on an empty array Okay?
   as always we get access to the 'current element' and 'current index' and so
   adding 1 to the index will then give us values from 1 to 7

   console.log(z);
   OUTPUT: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

   and rember how earlier i used a variable in place of 'current element'
   like _ ( underscore ) which means a throughaway a variable and so this is
   another use case for using this convention, because we do not need the 
   'current elements' at all, and but we still ofcourse have to define something
   as the first parameter because the 'index' that we need is only the second
   parameter but to denote that we are not using the 'current element' we simply
   write an underscore ( _ ) Okay? 

✍️ this 'Array.from()' function was initially introduced into javaScript 
   in order to create arrays from array like structures, so remember? how i
   talked about so-called iterables before, so things like;
   Strings, Maps or Sets thay are all iterables in javaScript and so thay can 
   be converted into real arrays using 'Array.from()' Okay?
   
   And that's the reason also for the name of the function because we can create
   arrays 'from' other things. All Right?

✍️ Now besides these obvious iterables that i just mentioned like 'Maps' or 'Sets'
   another great example of an array-like structure is the result of using
   'querySelectorAll', so maybe you remember that 'querySelectorAll' returns
   something called a 'node-list' which is something like an array which 
   conatins all the selected elements but its not a real array and so it doesn't
   have methods like 'map()' for example, but its not a real array and so it 
   doesn't have most of the array methods like 'map()' or reduce.

   So if we actually wanted to use a real array methods like that on a 'node-list'
   we would first need to convert the 'node-list' to an array, and for that
   'Array.from()' is perfect

------------------JSON Notes-----------------
✍️in json, key is always a string data type and value can be of any data type 
      like number, array,object,bool,null,string etc.

✍️the most used json is array of object.  
